SPLAT-1291: platform external documentation (#16)
openshift/infrastructure-provider-onboarding-guide: docs/platform-external/index.md

# Overview

<!-- > TODO/placeholder: provider overview of what Platform External is and goal of this section

- What is Platform External?
- When use Platform External?

... -->

> The Platform `External` integration path allows third parties to self-serve and integrate with OpenShift without the need to modify any core payload components and without the need for direct involvement of OpenShift engineering.

Reviewer: i don't think we need to put "External" in the block quotes. we can just say "Platform External", using capitalization for both words to indicate we are talking about this. we should reserve the block quotes for when we mean the actual value eg "set the platform type to `External`".

The `External` platform type is aligned with Kubernetes upstream, and was created to simplify the integration process for new cloud providers in OpenShift/OKD.

> This work is splitted into phases, the initial version is available on OCP 4.14+ which allows provides to install OpenShift cluster supplying the cloud-provider's Cloud Controller Manager (CCM) when the cluster is initialized.

Reviewer: minor nit
```suggestion
This work is split into phases, the initial version is available on OCP 4.14+ which allows provides to install OpenShift cluster supplying the cloud-provider's Cloud Controller Manager (CCM) when the cluster is initialized.
```

# Overview

<!-- > TODO/placeholder: provider overview of what Platform External is and goal of this section

- What is Platform External?
- When use Platform External?

... -->

The Platform External integration path allows third parties to self-serve and
integrate with OpenShift without the need to modify any core payload components and
without the need for direct involvement of OpenShift engineering.

> The Platform External platform type is aligned with Kubernetes upstream, and was created

Reviewer: i like the explanation, but i think we need to be careful about people conflating the ideas of "kubernetes external cloud provider" and "openshift external platform type".

we might need to define some of the terminology around what we mean when we say "cloud provider" and how that relates to "platform" in openshift and "cloud provider" in kubernetes. i'd like to think about this one, maybe we could discuss in our next sync meeting?

# Overview

The Platform External path allows providers to self-serve the integration of
Kubernetes components in OpenShift/OKD without the need to modify any core payload

> and without the need for direct involvement of OpenShift engineering.

Author: ```suggestion
and without the need for direct involvement of Red Hat engineering.
```

Historically, all cloud providers in Kubernetes were found in the main Kubernetes repository.
However, Kubernetes aims to be ubiquitous and this means supporting a great many infrastructure
providers. Doing this all from a single monolithic repository (and a single monolithic kube-controller-manager
binary) was deemed something that wouldn’t scale, and so in 2017, the Kubernetes community began working
on support for out-of-tree cloud providers. These out-of-tree providers were initially aimed at
allowing the community to develop cloud providers for new, previously unsupported infrastructure providers,
but as the functionality matured, the community decided to migrate all of the current in-tree cloud providers
to external cloud providers too. You can read more about this in the
[Kubernetes blog](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/04/17/the-future-of-cloud-providers-in-kubernetes/)
and the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/).

The external platform in OpenShift sets the `--cloud-provider` flag to `external` on Kubernetes components
(Kubelet and Kube Controller Manager) to signalize the use of external cloud providers,

> allowing partners to extend providers' components like Cloud Controller Manager to the OpenShift platform.

Author: Added an "admonition" block explaining it.
